ACD-502 (#26)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: DataHub/Integration/04_ManageChannels.md

[!!User Interface Channels](../UserInterface/02e_Channels.md)
[!!Configure the channel settings](../../PIM/Integration/ConfigureChannels.md)

# Manage the channels

A channel is needed to create offers for a certain connection.

> By default, the *Actindo Basic* channel has been preset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the *Actindo Basic* channel has been predefined.
```

[comment]: <> (Insert link for procedure about creating a new connection when available)

## Create a channel

Create a channel to maintain multiple channels or to create a new connection via the new channel.

#### Prerequisites

No prerequisites to fulfill.

#### Procedure

*DataHub > Settings > Tab CHANNELS*

![Channel list](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/Channels/ChannelList.png "[Channel list]")

1. Click the ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button in the bottom right corner.   
  The *Create channel* view is displayed.

  ![Create channel](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/Channels/CreateChannel.png "[Create channel]")

2. Enter a name for the channel in the *Name* field and, if desired, add a channel description in the  *Description* field.

3. Enter a key for the channel in the *Key* field. The key is required for API access and must be system wide unique. A channel key must fulfill the following criteria:
  - valid characters are **a-z** (upper and lower case), **0-9** and the underscore ( **_** )
  - the key must not start with a number
  - a double underscore ( **___** ) and a trailing underscore are forbidden

> 4. Enable the *Active* toggle to set the channel directly after creation to active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Enable the *Active* toggle to set the channel to active directly after creation.
```

  > [Info] The channel must be activated to be used.

5. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner.   
  The new channel has been saved. The *Create channel* view is closed.  

## Edit a channel

After you have created a channel, you can edit its name, description and key.

#### Prerequisites

At least one channel has been created, see [Create a channel](../Integration/CreateChannel.md).

> [Info] By default, the *Actindo Basic* channel has been predefined in the *Core1 Platform*.

#### Procedure

*DataHub > Settings > Tab CHANNELS*

![Channel list](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/Channels/ChannelList.png "[Channel list]")

1. Click the channel you want to edit in the list of channels.   
  The *Edit channel* view is displayed.

  ![Edit channel](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/Channels/EditChannel.png "[Edit channel]")

2. Edit the desired data of the channel in the corresponding fields.

3. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner.   
  The changes have been saved. The *Edit channel* view is closed.  

## Deactivate a channel

> Deactivate a channel when it should not be used for a certain time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deactivate a channel if it is not going to be used for a certain time.
```

> The channel is no longer available for offers when it is inactive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When it is inactive, the channel is no longer available for offers.
```

Further, it is recommended to deactivate a channel instead of deleting it to prevent any problems because of existing connections, see [Deactivate a channel](#deactivate-a-channel).

#### Prerequisites

At least one channel has been created, see [Create a channel](#create-a-channel).

> [Info] By default, the *Actindo Basic* channel has been predefined in the *Core1 Platform*.

#### Procedure

*DataHub > Settings > Tab CHANNELS*

![Channel list](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/Channels/ChannelList.png "[Channel list]")

1. Click the channel you want to edit in the list of channels.   
  The *Edit channel* view is displayed.

  ![Edit channel](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/Channels/EditChannel.png "[Edit channel]")

2. Disable the *Active* toggle.

3. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner.   
  The channel has been deactivated. The *Edit channel* view is closed.

## Delete a channel

> You can delete a channel if it is no longer needed. As there are usually existing connections via a channel, it is highly recommended not to delete a channel. Instead, you can deactivate a channel and thus prevent its use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can delete a channel if it is no longer needed. As there are usually existing connections via a channel, it is highly recommended not to delete a channel. Instead, you can deactivate a channel and thus prevent its use, see [Deactivate a channel](#deactivate-a-channel).
```

#### Prerequisites

At least one channel has been created, see [Create a channel](#create-a-channel).

> [Info] By default, the *Actindo Basic* channel has been predefined in the *Core1 Platform*. The *Actindo Basic* channel cannot be deleted.

#### Procedure

*DataHub > Settings > Tab CHANNELS*

![Channel list](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/Channels/ChannelList.png "[Channel list]")

1. Select the checkbox of the channel you want to delete in the list of channels.    
  The editing toolbar is displayed above the channel list.

2. Click the [DELETE] button in the toolbar.  
  The channel has been deleted. The deletion cannot be undone.

> 

Reviewer: The deletion cannot be undone. -> Warning nach Schritt 1.

>   > [Info] If the selected channel cannot be deleted, an error message is displayed in the upper right corner. To prevent the channels use, it is recommended to [deactivate the channel](#deactivate-a-channel) instead of delete it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > [Info] If the selected channel cannot be deleted, an error message is displayed in the upper right corner. To prevent the channels use, it is recommended to [deactivate the channel](#deactivate-a-channel) instead of deleting it.
```
